There is a lot to know about Parkinson's disease. Learn about symptoms, how it is diagnosed and what treatment options are available.
While living with PD can be challenging, there are many things you can do to maintain and improve your quality of life and live well with Parkinson's disease.
Living well with Parkinson’s disease (PD) means getting the support you need — from tools that help you work alongside your care team to resources that empower you.
Our research has led to breakthroughs in treatment and improved care that bring hope to the entire Parkinson's community.
There are many ways you can support the fight against Parkinson’s. Whatever form your gift takes, you can be confident that it goes toward providing crucial resources for those affected by this disease.
Breadcrumb
Breadcrumb
Get informed about Parkinson's disease with these key numbers.
Who has Parkinson's?
people in the U.S. live with Parkinson's disease.
people in the U.S. live with Parkinson's disease.
people in the U.S. are diagnosed with Parkinson's every year.
people in the U.S. are diagnosed with Parkinson's every year.
Estimated Healthcare Costs Related to PD in the U.S.
The combined direct and indirect cost of Parkinson’s, including treatment, social security payments and lost income, is estimated to be nearly $52 billion per year in the U.S. alone.
Medications alone cost an average of $2,500 a year and therapeutic surgery can cost up to $100,000 per person.
Powerful Numbers
When a large population of people have a disease like Parkinson’s disease, it is essential to have an accurate understanding of how many people have the disease, where they live and why they have it.
The key terms incidence and prevalence are often used when talking about PD statistics.
Incidence of Parkinson’s in the U.S.
A 2022 Parkinson’s Foundation-backed study revealed that nearly 90,000 people are diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease in the U.S. each year. This represents a steep 50% increase from the previously estimated rate of 60,000 diagnoses annually.
The study, titled “Incidence of Parkinson Disease in North America ,” found that:
This study is the most comprehensive assessment of PD incidence in North America based on five epidemiological (the study of a disease and its impact) sets of data to count the number of diagnoses in 2012. Prior PD incidence rates, based on smaller studies, were estimated to be in the 40,000 – 60,000 range per year. The new incidence rate is 1.5 times higher at nearly 90,000 cases annually.
This study was supported by the Parkinson’s Foundation and The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research (MJFF), as well as the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES).
Learn More
Parkinson's Prevalence
According to the Parkinson’s Foundation Parkinson’s Prevalence Project, 1.2 million people in the U.S. will be living with Parkinson’s by 2030.
In 2014, the Prevalence Project sought to calculate an accurate estimate of the prevalence of Parkinson’s in North America. This study draws on a large group of populations with a diverse range of backgrounds.
Loading...
About the Map
The Parkinson’s Prevalence Map is a graphical representation of the Prevalence study’s results applied to the population structure of individual states (people in the 45+ age range) using 2016 state-level U.S. Census data. States with larger populations or large numbers of older adults have higher estimated numbers of people with PD. The Foundation is working to help support federal efforts to create a comprehensive national measure.
Parkinson’s Prevalence Facts
Source
Marras, C., Beck, J. C., Bower, J. H., Roberts, E., Ritz, B., Ross, G. W., Abbott, R. D., Savica, R., Van Den Eeden, S. K., Willis, A. W., Tanner, CM, on behalf of the Parkinson’s Foundation P4 Group (2018). Prevalence of Parkinson’s disease across North America. Npj Parkinson's Disease, 4(1), 1–7. [http://doi.org/10.1038/s41531-018-0058-0](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41531-018-0058-0)
Related Materials
Neuro Talk: What To Know About Parkinson’s Disease Statistics
Getting Involved in Research
Episode 15: Why and How to Participate in Parkinson’s Research
Join the Fight Against Parkinson's
Support ground-breaking research, care and community outreach
Get the latest news about PD research, resources and community initiatives — straight to your inbox.
FL: 5757 Waterford District Drive, Ste 310, Miami, FL 33126
NY: 1359 Broadway, Ste 1509, New York, NY 10018, USA
© 2024 Parkinson's Foundation
The Parkinson's Foundation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. EIN: 13-1866796
Sign Up
Basic Info
Parkinson's Connection
Address
Personal Information
